The female Caucasian proband presented with nystagmus at birth and bilateral cataracts that were first detected at 3 mo of age. Her lenses were removed during her first year, but there was no apparent improvement in her best-corrected visual acuity. At age 6 yr, she was found to have optic nerve atrophy after a visual evoked potentials (VEP) test. The VEP test concluded that the patient had highly abnormal visual evoked potentials in both eyes. She was otherwise healthy until 12 yr of age when she started experiencing ataxia, which caused her to stumble. The ataxia initially manifested only in her lower limbs, and then her upper limbs began to show signs of ataxia at ~15 yr of age. She started experiencing falls at age 17 and was formally diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy after nerve conduction studies were performed at age 21. The nerve conduction studies showed a complete absence of all sensory responses in the upper and lower extremities. Motor nerve conduction studies in the upper limbs were normal, and there were no findings that suggested demyelination.

The patient recalled a relatively rapid progression of her neuropathy between 17 and 27 yr of age, though the progression has slowed for the last few years. Her visual acuity has worsened since birth, decreasing from 20/200 as a young child to 20/450 currently. She also has symptoms of palinopsia with smearing effect, double vision, and visual snow. By age 23 yr, she had cutis marmorata in her extremities, a novel phenotype for OPA3 mutations, suggesting some degree of vasomotor instability. She also has cerebellar findings including a marked intention tremor, dysdiadochokinesia, and mild dysarthria, suggesting there is a cerebellar component to her ataxia. She has an extrapyramidal component with some chorea, postural tremor, and vocal tremor. She has normal facial features with the exception of upslanting palpebral fissures and is of normal intelligence. The possibility of a secondary lipodystrophy was considered because she also has generalized wasting of muscle and subcutaneous fat, especially in the hands and forearms. She has diminished light touch sensation from knees distally and distal to the metacarpophalangeal joints of the hands. Blood biomarkers have been unremarkable over the last 10 yr, except for occasional mild neutropenia and mild elevations of creatine kinase and total cholesterol (Table 1). Urinalysis has shown moderate ketones and a slightly elevated vitamin E, though urine organic acids found no evidence of 3-methylglutaconic aciduria as her 3-methylglutaconic acid level was 9 mmol/mol of creatinine (reference range <20 mmol/mol Cr). Her electromyography (EMG) showed chronic neurogenic changes, and brain magnetic resonance imagings (MRIs) performed at ages 20 and 23 yr were normal with the exceptions of signs of bilateral optic nerve and chiasmal atrophy. There is no apparent cardiac involvement as demonstrated by a normal electrocardiogram and echocardiogram.

She experiences constant paresthesia and numbness in her extremities. Diminished light touch sensation in her hands and feet make it difficult for her to distinguish textures. She also experiences proximal muscle weakness. She has lost position sense in her distal interphalangeal joints in both her hands and feet. Deep tendon reflexes are absent in her ankles, knees, and wrists. She has hyperesthesia of her lower legs, particularly of the soles of her feet. She also has atrophy of the fat pads of her face and has experienced neuropathic pain in her hands and feet. She has an ataxic gait and has reduced hearing in her left ear (512 mHz). Her parents and two siblings showed no signs of sharing her phenotype.

