The proband is a 4-yr-old female presenting with idiopathic epilepsy (10 to 15 seizures per day), cortical blindness, and developmental regression (Figs. 1 and 2; Supplemental Video 1). Her medical records show that she has no language or motor skills, is fed through a G tube, and has recurrent fevers and osteopenia. She had acute fractures of her distal radius and distal ulna bilaterally as well as on the left distal tibia and left distal fibula while on a ketogenic diet. Table 1 outlines her phenotypic features using Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) terms. Before whole-exome sequencing (WES), an infantile epileptic encephalopathy panel that did not include SCN8A was ordered for this proband. The results showed a variant of uncertain significance in exon 3 of the GRIN2A gene that encodes the glutamate ionotropic receptor N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type subunit 2A, resulting in an amino acid change from phenylalanine to isoleucine at position 183. Parents of the proband were tested for this variant and the unaffected father was found to carry this variant. This proband had a high-resolution whole-genome single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)/copy-number microarray analysis using the Cytoscan HD platform, and Chromosome Analysis Suite Software (Affymetrix) was used for analysis. The result was normal and no clinically significant copy-number variants were discovered.

The only reported complication during pregnancy was a group B streptococcal infection in the mother. From birth to 3 mo of age, the proband met all milestones, although her parents report she was slightly hypotonic. At 3 mo, she experienced her first seizure-like activity, although medical tests revealed no abnormalities. The evening after her 5-mo vaccinations, including diphtheria (DT), Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) conjugate (PRP-T), inactivated polio vaccine (IPV), and pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13), she was admitted to the emergency department with increased seizure activity, nystagmus, hypotonia, and fever, although medical tests revealed no pertinent abnormalities. A direct link between the vaccination and the onset of symptoms has not been established, and a link is not proposed by the authors.

An electroencephalogram (EEG) 2 wk after the onset of severe symptoms revealed severe abnormalities, and the patient was diagnosed with idiopathic epileptic encephalopathy. The EEG showed the presence of frequent independent multifocal, mostly right posterior, epileptogenic abnormalities, consistent with a tendency toward partial onset seizures, and this is indicative of right hemispheric profound cerebral dysfunction. Follow-up EEGs showed multifocal sharp waves. Facial features include a short, upturned nose, full cheeks, a short philtrum, and a horizontal crease on the chin (Fig. 2). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans revealed no significant abnormalities that might contribute to the proband's condition; myelination was determined to be within normal range, and no congenital brain malformations or cytotoxic edema were found to suggest ischemia. The only abnormality found was a small, left periventricular cyst, most likely an incidental germinolytic cyst, which was determined to be unrelated to the proband's clinical presentation. Her physical manifestations include the absence of all mobility and motor coordination, with daily placement in a wheelchair, and the absence of a startle reflex, possibly secondary to neck weakness and poor eye control. The family history is unremarkable.

Medications that the proband is now taking include phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and Charlotte's Web (Hemp extract). The addition of carbamazepine has stopped her loop seizures and prevents her from having seizures as she enters and exits sleep. She has improved awareness, has more eye contact, and is able to shake a rattle.

