Severe hypertension, especially diastolic hypertension, was diagnosed at age 5 yr in a previously healthy Caucasian (non-Hispanic white) girl and followed until 17 yr of age. She presented with a history of persistently elevated blood pressures, easy fatigue, and palpitations. She was on no medications or supplements that could elevate her blood pressure. She was born at 39 wk of gestation with no significant past medical history except for allergic rhinitis. On physical examination, the child had no dysmorphism or obesity but she had a short stature with a height of 117cm at 5 yr of age, which was less than the 5th percentile at diagnosis, and a height of 150 cm at 17 yr of age. Her body weight was 22 kg at diagnosis. She was found to have an average of three measurements of blood pressure in three different clinic visits measuring 154/107 mmHg, which was above the gender, age, and height percentile-specific 99th percentile (119/82 mmHg) per the Fourth Report (National High Blood Pressure Education Program 2004), and the sustained hypertension was confirmed by a 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring with an average of 137/96 mmHg, along with a 24-h systolic blood pressure load of 98% and diastolic blood pressure load of 94%. The systolic nocturnal dip in the blood pressures was 13% and diastolic dip was 20%. She had a soft ejection systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border and the rest of her physical examination was unremarkable.

There was a family history of hypertension (Fig. 1) with both parents diagnosed with hypertension, her mother diagnosed at the age of 35 yr but not taking any antihypertensive medications and father at 19 yr of age, treated with lisinopril. The mother also had a short stature with a height of 150 cm, whereas her father was of normal height at 183 cm. There was no family history of sudden unexplained death but there was a history of stroke in the maternal grandmother.

Upon further evaluation at the tertiary hypertension clinic, the child was confirmed to have persistent hypertension at the age of 5 yr per recommendations by the Fourth Working Group (National High Blood Pressure Education Program 2004). She underwent a thorough evaluation for other secondary causes of hypertension per recommendations (National High Blood Pressure Education Program 2004), including a urinary evaluation, blood tests, echocardiogram, sleep study, renal ultrasound, and renal magnetic resonance imaging. She was found to have low levels of serum potassium, serum aldosterone, and plasma renin activity. These measures were serum aldosterone levels of 1.6 ng/dL and plasma renin activity of 0.1 ng/mL/h with a serum aldosterone to renin ratio of 16. She also underwent an echocardiogram and was found to have evidence of end-organ damage with left ventricular hypertrophy and a secundum atrial septal defect. Her lipid profile, glucose, and C-reactive protein were within normal limits. A 24-h measurement of urinary catecholamine metabolites (metanephrine, normetanephrine, homovanillic acid, and vanillylmandelic acid) was normal. Her renal imaging did not reveal any abnormalities. Her electrocardiogram showed normal conduction intervals and the sleep study was normal.

Because of the persistent hypokalemia with low plasma levels of renin and aldosterone, a monogenic form of hypertension was suspected. However, because of family preference, further evaluation by genetic studies was deferred until the age of 17 yr when the family agreed to participate in a study protocol in which the WES was provided without any charge to the family.

